[Doc] Add a tutorial to the docs (#2328)
apollographql/apollo-android: docs/source/tutorial/05-connect-queries-to-your-ui.mdx

---
title: "5. Connect your queries to your UI"
---

In this chapter, you are going to display a list of Launch Sites in a [RecyclerView](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/ui/layout/recyclerview).

## Configure LaunchListAdapter

Open `LaunchListAdapter` and add a `launches` property:

```kotlin:title=app/src/main/java/com/example/rocketreserver/LaunchListAdapter.kt

> class LaunchListAdapter(val launches: List<LaunchListQuery.Launch>) :
>     RecyclerView.Adapter<LaunchListAdapter.ViewHolder>() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class LaunchListAdapter(
    val launches: List<LaunchListQuery.Launch>
) : RecyclerView.Adapter<LaunchListAdapter.ViewHolder>() {
```

```

`LaunchListQuery.Launch` is a typesafe generated model from your LaunchList.graphql query.

## Bind the data to the UI

Use the `launches` property to bind items to your adapter:

```kotlin:title=app/src/main/java/com/example/rocketreserver/LaunchListAdapter.kt
    override fun getItemCount(): Int {
        return launches.size
    }

    override fun onBindViewHolder(holder: ViewHolder, position: Int) {
        val launch = launches.get(position)
        holder.binding.site.text = launch.site ?: ""
    }
```

## Pass the LaunchListAdapter to the RecyclerView

> Create a new Adapter and pass it to your recycler view:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new Adapter and pass it to your RecyclerView:
```

```kotlin:title=app/src/main/java/com/example/rocketreserver/LaunchListFragment.kt
        lifecycleScope.launchWhenResumed {
            val response = try {
                apolloClient.query(LaunchListQuery()).toDeferred().await()
            } catch (e: ApolloException) {
                Log.d("LaunchList", "Failure", e)
                null
            }

            val launches = response?.data?.launches?.launches?.filterNotNull()

>             if (launches != null && !response.hasErrors()) {

Reviewer 2: should we cover the errors? To explain that user should check for response.errors?

Author: That'd be great, I'll see if I can trigger some meaningful error

Author: I added error handling to the details view, it's easy to trigger errors there by passing wrong ids: 

See https://jolly-kowalevski-0304f0.netlify.app/docs/android/tutorial/08-add-a-details-view/#handle-protocol-errors for a preview
